# Contributing

## IDEs and IDE Extensions
Essentially only IntelliJ IDEA will be enough to fully work with Snowdrop. You can use the free or paid edition, both
work very similarly. IntelliJ will suggest extensions to install, it's usually good at getting that right so you should
listen to it. To make certain large files less daunting, we sometimes use `//<editor-fold name="">`, so having those
enabled and using them is very reccomended.

## Documentation
If you introduce a component or util method, please add KDoc comments! They're essentially
the same as Javadoc. `@since` is optional because it isn't critical, but `@param` is required
if any parameters are required.

## AI contributions
In no way are AI generated pull requests, issues, or code welcome in this code base. You will have your issue or pull
request closed, and we will ignore you if you break this rule.

## What API should I use as a reference?
Always up-to-date Iceshrimp.NET with all non-essential values nullable. Most Iceshrimp.NET instances will have an API
reference at `/swagger`. If you don't know any, you can use https://next.iceshrimp.dev/.

## Shared solutions before platform-specific solutions
Too many platform-specific solutions can cause problems with either platform's implementation
to go unnoticed if a change is only tested on one platform. Always prefer a shared solution over one that
requires platform-specific implementations (`expect`/`actual` functions).

## Adding icons
We use Material Icons, which you can find here: https://fonts.google.com/icons. Icons can be two sizes: 20px or 24px.
To add an icon, click on it, swap the tab to "Android" in the opened sidebar, and download the XML.
Prefix that file with `icon_`, then drop it in `shared/commonMain/composeResources/drawable`.
Change the color from `@android/*` to `#000000`, otherwise the app will instantly crash.

## Using Flow<*> and collecting emissions as a state

Use the collector with lifecycle over the one without. Collectors with lifecycles are better for performance long term.

| Do                                                                                          | Don't                                                                          |
|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| ```val currentAccount by getCurrentAccountObjectFlow().collectAsStateWithLifecycle(null)``` | ```val currentAccount by getCurrentAccountObjectFlow().collectAsState(null)``` |

## Account ID vs `Account.id`
Snowdrop has an internal ID system separate from IDs generated by the user's remote instance. Accounts get their own ID
in the app that aren't the same as their ID on their instance. These IDs are prefixed with `_S-` to clearly show they
are for Snowdrop use only. Sometimes confusing because we use similar language everywhere to reference app accounts and 
server accounts, but if it involves logout and other app account state things, assume internal account IDs are being used
and not remote ones.
